to me this is a world is flat moment
that the people who've learned to game
the system
that this discomfort that we feel we're
we actually are right like they actually
don't understand the game they're in
business is an infinite game and when
you play with a finite mindset lots of
people suffer including the companies
that they themselves are trying to build
that's the great irony the great irony
is the way you build great companies
is with an infinite mindset the way you
build great companies is by prioritizing
people before profit the way you build
great companies is will before resources
both things important but there has to
be this general leaning where we can
feel
when we come to work and feel
like we're part of something bigger than
ourselves where we feel that our work
and our effort is worth more than simply
the money we make
[Music]
hey everyone welcome to impact theory
today's guest is a multiple time
best-selling author with one of the most
viewed ted talks of all time his talk
which popularized the notion of starting
with y has been viewed roughly 45
million times and translated into 48
languages the speech he gave on
millennials the first time i interviewed
him broke the internet garnering well
over 300 million views and making him
youtube's fifth most searched term of
the entirety of 2017. his unconventional
views have made him one of the most
sought-after speakers on the planet and
have seen him invited to meet with the
leaders of some of today's most
important businesses and institutions
including disney american airlines
microsoft the united nations the united
states congress and multiple branches of
the us military he is a self-described
unshakable optimist who has dedicated
his life to bringing to fruition a world
where people feel fulfilled by their
work he is truly helping to shape the
minds of the next generation of leaders
he is also helping to shape public
discourse through continued
contributions to such prestigious media
outlets as the new york times wall
street journal the washington post the
huffington post msnbc and countless
others so please help me in welcoming
the man who has been described as a
visionary thinker with a rare intellect
the author of start with why leaders eat
last and now the infinite game
simon cynic
good to see you too man
so the new book dude
it is wicked
i'm it's really been interesting to see
you call your babru shot say that you
want to start a movement and now be
insanely consistent with the bricks that
you would have to lay to actually get a
mass of people on board with a movement
it was pretty exciting to read thank you
really interested knowing how much your
ideas are like mind viruses that get
inside people's heads and really do echo
through culture dude in a pretty cool
way
it'll be interesting to see what happens
with this one because i think you're
right on the money about something
incredibly powerful define for us an
infinite game
so in the mid 1980s a theologian named
james carsey wrote this little book
called finite infinite games in which he
defines these two kinds of games finite
games which have known players fixed
rules and agreed upon objectives
football right there's always a
beginning a middle and an end
and the the objective is to win the game
and then there's infinite games infinite
games are defined as known and unknown
players you don't necessarily know who
all the other players are
the rules are changeable you can play
however you want
and the objective is to perpetuate the
game to stay in the game as long as
possible
what i find so fascinating about this
idea when i first learned about it is we
are players in multiple infinite games
every day of our lives there's just no
such thing as being the winner in your
marriage you know
there's no such thing as winning global
politics and there's definitely no such
thing as winning business
business is an infinite game
um and yet when we listen to the
language of too many leaders they talk
about being number one being the best
and beating their competition
based on what there's no agreed upon
objectives there's no agreed upon time
frames and so what ends up happening is
you have people building organizations
and leading with a finite mindset
playing to win in a game where there's
no such thing as winning
and when we play with a finite mindset
in an infinite game there's a few very
predictable and consistent outcomes
amongst which include the decline of
trust
the decline of cooperation
the decline of innovation all of which
contribute to the eventual demise of the
organization itself
um and so what i wrote about is is is
what it means to lead with an infinite
mindset because we teach leadership as
if it were a finite game um you know
people start business with the goal of
winning or being number one
and that's a problem um because that's
impossible um so what i wrote about in
the infinite game is is leading with an
infinite mindset so talk to me about why
revenue is a mistake because as a
business leader when you walk in that
actually seems like an agreed upon
metric certainly if you're playing to
wall street understanding your price per
share like what that means the value
that you're adding to shareholders like
i think most people at that level of
business would say what do you mean we
all know what the the scoreboard is
there's nothing wrong with revenues um
there are two
currencies in the infinite game will and
resources
resources is money you need money to
stay in the game but you need the will
of the people as well and um the problem
is is that when we organize to win that
means the score is more important than
the inspiration and motivation that
people have to to give their blood sweat
and tears
and when we prioritize resources before
will that's a problem i've never met a
ceo that doesn't believe their people
are important the problem is where on
the priority list you know
we've been to any number of
presentations where they put their
priorities on the wall you know number
one growth number two shareholder value
number three our customer number four
our employees there it is see i do care
about our people um and the reality is
as social animals we wanna work for and
we're willing to give our blood sweat
and tears to leaders who understand that
the balance of those two essential
currencies the balance of those two
things is will has to come before
resources and that doesn't mean 90 10
when i talk about putting people before
profit you know people freak out which
is ridiculous you need fuel for the car
to go money is fuel for the organization
of course even if there's a leaning it's
5149 there has to be a slight leaning
towards people because there will always
be decisions that a company has to make
in which those two cannot uh
both be supplied and one will have to be
sacrificed the question the question is
which will you always prioritize
let me give you a hypothetical example
to make my point
two ceos the first ceo says our number
one priority is growth and of course our
people are important because if we take
care of our people we will meet and
exceed our financial goals
second ceo says
our number one priority is our people
and if we take care of our people we
will always meet and exceed our
financial goals which one would you
rather work for i don't want the price i
mean it's obvious right it's obvious um
so this is what it means to prioritize
will of resources it has of course of
course
uh
money matters um
but the people matter more
yeah that's um
it's one of those things when you get
into business that probably
intellectually feels
obvious if you said that to people
they'd be like yeah i get that but i
think that it plays out so often the way
that you explained it the first time
like we want growth yeah of course like
take care of the people it's really
going to feel the growth all that and
it's
speaking from experience it is very easy
to slide into that mentality and it is
insanely difficult to execute at the
level of no no my people really do come
first they're going to come first in not
just what i say they're going to come
first in policies that we write they're
going to come first and the actions that
we
do and one thing that i really liked
about the book is
um
you're
you're intimating and at times just flat
out saying it's also the best way to run
a business if secretly what you really
want are the profits why is that true
the best way to own a business when you
secretly want the profits no it's the
opposite it's the opposite do you think
that's true because i have actually seen
like i and maybe i saw in your book what
i wanted to see what it it seemed like
you were saying to me was hey don't run
your business for a profit don't even
have it in the back your mind take care
of your people but the irony of ironies
is when you take care of your people and
they trust each other yes the prophets
will come oh yes yes yes yes yes of
course yes of course
people who are willing to give their
blood sweat and tears make for better
more profitable companies people who are
only there for their own selfish needs
and would be willing to jump ship as
soon as they get a better better offer
they're not the best people to help
build a company for the long term
we can throw money at people which will
last for a while and you can make a
company look successful for a while but
it doesn't mean it can last
we can't judge a ship by how well the
crew performs in calm waters we judge a
ship by how well the crew performs in
rough waters and and um the problem is
is uh is in good times we don't use all
that extra money to take care of the
people you know we use it to distribute
and distribute and then when hard times
come sometimes there's not enough
padding and the culture hasn't been
fostered over that time but that is the
irony which is when we lead with an
infinite mindset and the leaders that do
lead with an infinite mindset have
disproportionately more successful
companies more innovative companies more
profitable companies all of which are
strong enough to to last for a very very
very long time um
uh and not because they just have the
financial wealth to weather storms but
but the company continues to grow and
innovate and reinvent itself so that's
it's relevant in the face of new
technology and changing tastes and
politics in the world um so that is the
great irony but it has to be
genuine meaning to say that i care about
my people because they're a means to an
end it's like we only we only like you
because you help us make money uh
makes us not only feel used but that
that we're a mechanism for somebody
else's success
where when we say
we care about our people and money is
the mechanism by which we can take care
of people you know the more money we
make the more we can take care of our
people and serve our customers um it has
a profound impact on on our desire to to
give more
yeah it's um that's something that in
founding impact theory so i i really
learned at quest you're only as good as
what you write down when you start
scaling
and
really having to crystallize it and put
something down it really does make your
values insanely clear and i started
thinking a lot about safety and trust
which are two of like the big pushes in
your book and i'd love to know like what
do you see is the difference between the
the way that safe is being used now is
like safe space
versus the way that you talk about
safety in the book to you are they one
and the same do you differentiate from a
safe space like how do you think about
safety it has all those definitions i
mean we want to feel safe at work which
means we feel that we can be ourselves
it means that we feel safe enough to
raise our hands and say i made a mistake
or i don't feel qualified for the
position you've given me i need more
training
or i'm struggling at home it's affecting
my work i'm scared i need help
and to say any of those things with the
confidence that our boss or any of our
colleagues would rush to support us
because if we don't create those
psychologically and sometimes physically
safe spaces but those psychological safe
spaces what we end up is with a group of
people who come to work every day lying
hiding and faking they're hiding
mistakes
they are um
uh not admitting if they don't know how
to do their jobs
um they will never admit that they don't
know something um for fear that it makes
them vulnerable for fear that it maybe
makes them the weak link that they'll
find themselves on some short list at
the next round of layoffs uh and
the problem is is how do you run a
successful organization that's supposed
to sustain over the long term uh thrive
over the long term if people are
literally hiding things that go wrong
not admitting that they don't know how
to do their jobs and never admitting
they need help that doesn't last that
doesn't last and the problem is is when
um someone leads with a finite mindset
where they attempt to incentivize
performance and by the way you can't
incentivize performance you can only
incentivize behavior then bad things
eventually happen
that's interesting talk to me more about
why can't you incentivize performance
and how do incentives end up influencing
behavior well you can't incentivize
performance because somebody has to do
something to achieve that performance
there's there's a there's a cause and
effect you know you you can't
incentivize an effect you can only
incentivize the cause that would
hopefully
yield that effect which is behavior so
if i say to you um i will give you a
massive bonus if you hit a certain
target at the end of the year no matter
what
what you're incentivizing is that i will
do certain things to achieve that goal
that you've set for me but the problem
is is when we apply excessive amounts of
pressure
and it's at all costs like my very
livelihood depends on that
it can accidentally incentivize some
quite unseemly behaviors like hoarding
information
right because this is what gives me my
value and i don't want to share
information or things that i've learned
with my colleagues and co-workers which
is madness
or
unethical behavior stabbing other people
in the back
and this is one of the problems with i
think our modern business today which is
too much of businesses is run right now
with an excessive amount of finite
thinking now
there are always finite games within the
infinite game the infinite game however
provides the context and without that
infinite mindset all you have is win win
win win win win
which is
unsustainable an infinite game is not a
series of finite games um
it's unsustainable because nobody has
that energy and there's no such thing as
a perfect growth chart it doesn't exist
really fast tell me why why isn't an
infinite game just a series of finite
games for the same reason you can't just
keep eating chocolate cake every day
because it feels good um because simply
driving people driving people driving
people driving people driving people
driving people gets exhausting
it destroys the the foundations of trust
it destroys the foundations of
cooperation and when we don't work well
together share information admit
mistakes there's no innovation and we we
know what's simply driving a series of
finite games looks like it looks like
investment banking before 2008 which
produced an artificial uh a man-made
recession and so much of the the the
finite thinking that we have today
unfortunately
is a really reasonably modern invention
it's it's not like business is always
operated this way the the thinking of
milton friedman the the 1970s economist
has really dominated
sort of business theory today he
theorized that the responsibility of
business this is his definition the
responsibility of business is to
maximize profit within the bounds of the
law right he
what about ethics
you know like a a pharmaceutical company
that raises the price on essential drug
200 300
500 800 percent it's not illegal
it is unethical right it makes us
uncomfortable and yet the law
is not broken that's not a good enough
standard to run a business
and it was his thinking that gave rise
to the the theory of shareholder
supremacy which was a theory proposed in
the late 1970s
where um we prioritize the once needs
and desires of a shareholder over the
needs of the customer or the employee
which is like a coach who's trying to
build a great team by doing what the
fans want versus what the players need
right that's basically shareholder
supremacy and as i said it was just a
theory proposed in late 1970 that was
popularized during the boom years of the
80s and 90s
mass layoffs where we use
the livelihoods of human beings to meet
arbitrary projections on an annualized
basis at the end of the year did not
exist did not exist as a standard
business practice prior to the 1980s did
not exist it was popularized during
during the 80s and 90s
the dismantling of glass-steagall which
was an act passed after the great
depression to prevent another great
depression from happening and by the way
was extremely effective
between the dismantling of the
glass-steagall in the 80s and 90s and
the great depression there were a total
of zero stock market crashes since then
dismantling all in the name of corporate
profit we've had three we had uh the
dot-com boom black monday in 2008.
um
in other words when we play simply with
a finite mindset we actually do
long-term damage to our own system
that's supposed to benefit
all of us
um and and and i find that upsetting um
we've seen the rise of of of milton's uh
friedman's thinking rather
and like i said his theories dominate
business today and we feel it not only
have we had those those stock market
crashes but anybody who goes to work
today there's a general feeling of
unease you know especially if you work
for a company that embraces
annual or even quarterly layoffs to meet
arbitrary projections keep in mind a lot
of the companies that employ uh mass
layoffs are profitable just not as
profitable as they would like it's not
like they're losing money and they had
to do this to save the sinking ship
that's something completely different
these are highly profitable companies
that missed a projection and so they
laid people off so they could meet that
projection there's something
fundamentally wrong with that
and we know it because we feel it at
work we see this decline of trust we are
not loyal to our companies anymore why
would we be they're not loyal to us
and leaders set the tone so when
companies are loyal to us we will give
loyalty back to them when they're not
loyal to us why would we be loyal to
them
i'm tired of
of ceos telling me that you know
millennials these days don't stick
around very long well why would they if
you don't offer them any kind of loyalty
uh back and it's not for the people to
prove to you that they're loyal it's the
other way around leaders set the tone
and so it's because of this general
business theory
that we've seen a steady decline a
steady erosion
of loyalty in in the business world
today we don't want to work at a company
for 20 or 30 years
mainly because we're not sure we could
uh we're not sure that the company
actually cares to keep us around that
long and so we constantly have our eyes
open and we're constantly scanning we
come to work feeling uncomfortable that
some of the decisions that are being
made
don't benefit the good of the employee
that it really benefits this this
artificial constituency that we call the
shareholder which is really just a bunch
of institutional investors there's this
shareholder myth because there's been a
steady decline of the middle class being
involved in the stock market for years
and the whole point of the stock market
was that we all get to share in the
wealth that we helped build because it's
on the back of average joe employees
that produced the great wealth in the
nation and the whole point of the stock
market the genius of the modern day
corporation the genius of the public
company was that we all get to share in
the wealth that we're helping produce
unfortunately over the course of the 80s
and 90s we've seen systems produced
where we're seeing the general
population the middle class actually be
less included in in that success
and the reason i wrote the infinite game
was because i myself
got tired of being told by people in
positions of authority or people of
extreme wealth that i was naive that i
don't understand how business business
works and for many years i believed them
i thought maybe i am the dumb one right
we all kind of feel that because they
have the power they have the authority
they have the money they know more than
we do
but we still go to work and feel
uncomfortable and it turns out that that
discomfort that gut feeling that says
that there's something wrong here turns
out that the majority actually knows
something
uh and to me this is a world is flat
moment that that the the the people
who've learned to gain the system that
this discomfort that we feel we're we
actually are right like they actually
don't understand the game they're in
business is an infinite game and when
you play with a finite mindset lots of
people suffer including the companies
that they themselves are trying to build
that's the great irony the great irony
is the way you build great companies
is with an infinite mindset the way you
build great companies is by prioritizing
people before profit the way you build
great companies is will before resources
both both things important but there has
to be this general leaning where we can
feel
when we come to work and feel
like we're part of something bigger than
ourselves where we feel that our work
and our effort is worth more than simply
the money we make
we know that
right
and so for me i got tired of being told
i was naive i got tired of being told
that that that i don't understand how
business works and it turns out that me
and the majority of people actually
understand more we may not understand
the mechanics but we understand that
what's happening
isn't right it doesn't feel right did
you have a breakthrough moment like what
was the thing that made you go actually
i'm not wrong
um
[Music]
well well you know the discovery of of
of this definition of the infinite game
um was was a large part of it um because
i recognized that business is an
infinite game and almost all of the
leadership in business today is finite
minded and so there's literally you
can't show up to a game of basketball
ready to play football like it's not
going to go well we overuse sports
analogies in business
but sports has beginning middle and end
there actually is a finish line right we
overuse the analogies they're incorrect
analogies you know running a business is
the same as as getting healthy it's a
lifestyle leadership is a lifestyle an
infinite mindset is a lifestyle right so
for example you can't get healthy by
going to the gym for nine hours it
doesn't work right um
but if you go every single day for 20
minutes
you'll absolutely get into shape 100
but i don't know when and it's different
times for different people right and
leading is the same thing you can
absolutely have fitness goals you can
absolutely have finite goals within the
infinite context of being healthy but
there's a practice that you have to do
you have to get enough sleep you have to
go to the gym you have to eat well you
have to protect your relationships you
know because healthy relationships
really matter to our health and you have
to do all those things vigilantly and if
you miss your health goal it's okay you
keep working at it and you know you will
hit it business is the same who says
that you have to meet this goal on this
arbitrary date now it helps to drive and
it's good to have incentives and we
we're very goal-oriented species that's
fine but if we miss the thing
it's fine we just keep working towards
it like their guidance they're not
absolutes because they're arbitrary
dates and arbitrary numbers and even if
you do hit your fitness goal you don't
get to stop working out
you should not just you have to keep
going for the rest of your life
right and this is what leading with an
infinite mindset means
here's an example this is a normal
scenario in business right we will give
a team um uh a target a goal to hit by
certain time frame usually a year um
because that's usually when we pay taxes
right that's the only reason things are
done in years right if we pay taxes
every 18 months all the goals would be
18 months right
so we usually give people a financial
target and there's two teams one that is
driven solely by hitting that goal
because all they care about is getting
their bonus at the end of that goal
morale is up and down if they happen to
have a good month morale is up if they
have a bad month morale is down
retention is terrible they can't hold on
to employees
nobody really trusts each other the boss
is toxic and right before the end of the
financial year they
have some mad push where they're
dropping prices all over the place and
they're managed to drive revenues and
hit the goal right the problem is we
bonus that team we bonus that leader
because of what uh because of the goal
they hit right and basically what we're
doing is spreading a message to the rest
of the company saying we don't care how
you get there we don't care if you step
on your people we don't care if you act
unethically if you hit your number
you're going to do very well in this
company
versus another team that's doing
extremely well
it's good steady slow growth like really
really on target you know
not the highs and lows the peaks and
valleys morale is super high retention
is amazing it's a model team they trust
each other they share information and
they miss their goal on the agreed upon
date right at the end of the year
they're just shy of it but clearly you
can see from the trend data they're
going to hit it at 13 or 14 months the
problem is we don't give that person
anything we don't give that team
anything
right and this is part of the problem
when you have an infinite mindset
absolutely have the goals but the trend
matters more how you get there matters
as much if not more and we pay attention
to that so even if i hit my fitness goal
i'm eating better i'm sleeping better my
relationships are great i'm going to the
gym yes i miss my goal
but i know
if i just keep going i'll hit it i'm
getting healthier and healthier right i
just got the timing wrong
and this is what we need to build into
business that infinite mindset yes have
the goals yes have the ambitions yes
have the annual targets if we miss them
as long as we're doing the right things
we have the right lifestyle to take us
there that's a much healthier way to
live a life and a much healthier way to
build an organization so let's talk
about that recipe you break it down
pretty eloquently i'd say the book is
actually organized around the five
elements that seem like
yeah
the very things you're talking about now
what are those and
ultimately where i want to get maybe not
right now but ultimately what i want
people at home to be able to do is if
they're not a business owner understand
what to look for in that and understand
how they can play a role in shaping it
so there are five practices in order to
lead uh with an infinite mindset
you have to have a just cause
you have to have trusting teams
you have to have a worthy rival you have
to have a capacity for existential
flexibility and you have to have the
courage to lead
so just cause we have to give our people
something to advance
a cause so just
that they would be willing to sacrifice
their interests in order to do so in
other words turn down a better paying
job or
frequent business trips or working late
hours and though i may not like those
things i do them because it feels worth
it because i believe in what i'm a part
of here because i feel that i'm helping
advance because there's no achieving in
the infinite game
the goal is not final achievement the
goal is advancing to progress in the
infinite game and to have that vision of
an idealized state of the world um that
um all men are created equal right it's
an ideal
that a nation is striving towards that
we'll never actually get there but we'll
die trying that's the point and we can
offer people the same thing inside an
organization in fact in fact we have to
to give them something to advance now
how is this different from the why a y
comes from the past it is an origin
story every single one of us has our own
unique why it is our birthright it comes
from the sum total of how we were raised
as kids it is objective you have one and
you have one for the rest of your life
the only one right and the rest of our
lives are about making the decisions
that help us uh keep in balance with our
why a just cause doesn't come from the
past it just causes about the future
it's about where we're going right you
can have multiple just causes you can
have one professionally you can have one
personally you can have one for your
family you can have one for your church
and we're involved in all of these
there's massive pressure put on people
especially young people to what's your
vision well we're not all steve jobs and
bill gates we're not all visionaries
we don't have to have a vision but we do
have to find a vision that we can find
someone else's vision and we are so
compelled by it that we want to make it
our own that's what it means to go work
for a company with a visionary leader
that we believe in that vision so
clearly that we take their vision and we
make it our own and we will happily
contribute our work our effort in order
to advance what is now my vision right
martin luther king had a vision he stood
on the steps of the lincoln memorial and
told us his vision but his vision became
our vision so i may not have come up
with that vision but i found it and i'd
like to devote time and energy to help
advance it even beyond him we have to
give our people a just cause
we have to have trusting teams
we have to create environments inside
our organizations in which people feel
psychologically safe safe enough to
raise their hands and say i made a
mistake or i need help
the absence of trusting teams means we
have groups of people lying hiding and
faking
and that comes from good old-fashioned
leadership
leadership is not about being in charge
it's about taking care of those in our
charge and the very responsibility of a
leader
is not to drive performance
leaders are not responsible for the
results leaders are responsible for the
people who are responsible for the
results
and the problem is is we don't teach
people how to lead
right when you're very very junior we
give people tons of training how to do
their jobs some people get advanced
degrees how to do their jobs so that
they'll be good at them and if you're
really good at your job will promote you
and eventually you get promoted to a
position where you're now responsible
for the people who do the job you used
to do and we don't teach you how to do
that so how can we expect people to be
good at their jobs if we don't train
them how to do it like would you go see
a doctor that didn't go to medical
school no so why would we work for a
leader who has no training in being a
leader
that's why we get managers that's why we
get micromanagers that's why we get
toxicity it's not because they're bad
people it's because they don't know what
they're doing
and they're making it up as they go
along and those lucky times that we get
to work for a great leader well they
were lucky that they probably had a
great leader before them or they learned
it somewhere else or maybe they had a
terrible leader and they committed to do
the total opposite of everything the
point is they learned it well we have to
teach leadership so that leaders can
create environments in which all of us
can work to our natural best that
produces trusting teams all right i
don't want to derail because i know we
have three more but i think this is so
important what
in a crash course format like what does
that type of leadership look like how do
you create the environment where people
are going to thrive and create those
results that you're talking about what
does it you're asking me the question um
uh what does it mean to be healthy
you're asking me the question what does
it mean to be a great parent like i
don't have five things to be a great
parent right
it's a lifestyle and it comes number one
with the commitment that i am
responsible for the life of another
human being the growth of another human
being the closest thing to leadership is
parenting you have to be an infinite
student of parenting you know you want
to be a parent you ask your friends you
ask your own parents you join groups you
read magazines you watch talks whatever
it is you're constantly consuming how to
deal with this constantly changing
challenge of being a parent and it's ups
and downs and successes and failures you
know and that's what it is leadership is
the same
leaders great leaders are students of
leadership no matter how achieved they
may be
they're still learning
and it's a lifestyle it's the lifestyle
of what i need to do to look after
people which includes things like
listening
learning how to give and receive
feedback
learning how to have effective
confrontations how to discipline when
necessary in a way that's constructive
um
roam the halls get to know people
learning what it means to to ask
somebody questions how do you ask
questions
you know like some people are naturally
good at being curious about other human
beings and some people are uncomfortable
because they're introverts or whatever
socially awkward but we can learn
you know how do you learn to remember
people's names oh i'm bad at names no
you've just decided you're bad at names
we can learn to be good at names so that
when we walk down the hall and say hey
tom
oh my god he remembers my name it's a
nice feeling it's a lifestyle it's a
lifestyle there are many many things we
have to do and constantly work on to be
a great leader to create that
environment
that's pretty damn good i'll take that
all right so that was two trusting teams
yep
uh worthy rivals
uh this one's a funny one this one this
one i actually get more questions on
than any of the others believe it or not
i love the way you rolled it out in the
book so
so
i'll tell the story so there's another
guy who does what i do
uh he's extremely well respected um he
does extremely good work
um i hate him i haven't i haven't
you know it's he's always been very nice
to me when i've seen him professionally
just i have an irrational hatred of him
and uh whenever his name comes up i like
it drives me nuts like people bring it
like we're we hired him and i was like
[Music]
uh and and because i'm because i hate
him
uh i'm really competitive with him
and so i will go online and look at my
book rankings
and i'll immediately check his
and mind you i don't look at anybody
else's
just his
and uh if i'm ahead i've got this like
smug feeling and if he's ahead
i get really pissed off you know
um
so anyway we had the opportunity to
uh speak at the same event i don't mean
like me in the morning in the afternoon
afternoon like we were interviewed
together on the stage
and the interviewer thought it would be
fun if
if we introduced each other
and so i went first
and then i looked at him and i said um
you make me really insecure
all of your strengths are all of my
weaknesses
and when your name comes up it makes me
really uncomfortable
and he looked at me and he said
funny i feel the same about you
the reason i had such an irrational
hatred of him had nothing to do with him
it had to do with me
he's my worthy rival his strengths
revealed to me my own weaknesses and
instead of confronting and taking a hard
look at myself and evaluating those
weaknesses and working on those
weaknesses it was much easier to take
all of that negative energy and direct
it towards him in other words to be
competitive to want to beat him
right it was a very cathartic experience
we've since become very close friends
have worked together i no longer check
his book rankings and because we share
the same cause we can actually work
together
and so and so what i recognized was so
often in business we have these
competitors sometimes on our own teams
that we want to beat them we've all had
the experience where one of our
colleagues got a promotion and we got
upset we got angry we got angry at
somebody else's success
think about that for a second why
couldn't we share in the joy right what
is it about them that's being revealed
in us
that's the problem right and so having
worthy rivals instead of competitors
competitors are other players we set out
to beat
but the problem with that is there's no
finish line
and so
we're obsessed with beating the other
company
then at some point sure you're ahead in
whatever metric you chose
until when right at what expense at what
cost uh that's not sustainable but
rather the other players inside our
industry outside our industry on our own
teams we can choose our own worthy
rivals their strengths reveal to us our
weaknesses and by having our weaknesses
reveal to us it means we have the
opportunity to grow and improve and the
infinite game at its core is basically a
game of constant improvement and so our
worthy rivals reveal to us our
weaknesses and our opportunities to
improve
yeah that's that's one of the areas
where
switching your mindset really has a
powerful impact and beginning to change
the way that you think that one and i
mean oh god all these are pretty
powerful the next one the existential um
flexibility flexibility this one maybe
has the headiest title what is it and
how do we watch out for it existential
flexibility is the willingness to make
profound strategic shifts in order to
advance your cause 180 degrees right
this is not the daily flexibility that
you need in business
a leader or even us as individuals
may never have to perform an existential
flex
um
and at most you might ever have to do it
in an entire career once or never
but the responsibility of the of any
leader is to prepare their organizations
for an existential flex should it need
need to happen so what is an existential
flex
um so the best case is really uh steve
jobs um and his just cause uh jobs and
wozniak had a very clear just cause
which is to empower individuals to stand
up to big brother right they're
revolutionaries at heart and they saw
the personal computer as a brilliant
tool to help them advance that to
empower individuals to stand up to big
brother and steve wozniak imagined a
time in which an individual could
compete in business against a
corporation thanks to a personal
computer
impression right
um
apple's already had success from the
apple one the apple ii it's already a
big company steve jobs is already a
famous ceo and in december of 1979 jobs
and a bunch of his senior executives go
and visit xerox park which was xerox's r
d division
and xerox shows them
a new invention of theirs called the
graphic user interface
that allows a user to click a mouse on a
desktop to move icons and folders
to use the computer instead of having to
learn an entire computer language now
jobs
who believes in empowering
individuals sees this technology
and says to his team we have to invest
in this graphic user interface thing
and the voice of reason i guess in the
team says steve we can't
we can't do it we've already invested
millions of dollars in countless
man-hours in a different strategic
direction if we suddenly change
directions we're going to blow up our
own company
to which jobs actually said better we
should blow it up than someone else
and that decision led to the macintosh
um the first properly graphic user
interface computer that had in mass
market appeal um that was so profound
um that the entire
platform of windows windows 2.0
was basically designed to act like a
macintosh you know and the reason we all
have computers on our desks today the
reason it's a household appliance the
reason any one of us can compete against
a corporation
is because of this profound shift
he was willing to do that now i call it
a capacity for existential flexibility
because it's not shiny object syndrome
which you know too many entrepreneurs
are subjected to you know this is it
this is it guys you know flavor of the
moment
um
uh it's done with the very specific
reason of advancing the cause i found a
better way to advance the cause
and you have to have the just cause
otherwise how do you know what to shift
and you have to have the trusting teams
because you will put the organization
through short-term hell and that and the
numbers probably will go down in the
short term and the team has to be
willing to say
we agree
we understand why you're making the
shift let's do this and it's going to
suck
but
we're in and they hunker down and they
figure it out
if you don't have a just cause you're
literally just chasing something
and
if you don't have the trusting teams
this happens a lot where sometimes the
leader has the just cause but the team
doesn't know it
and if you don't have the trusting teams
then people will think you've lost your
mind and they'll start abandoning shep
or you respond to the pressures from
wall street or outside because the
numbers start to go down
but but existential flexibility like i
said if you don't have to do it you have
to prepare the organization for the for
your success for your successor to be
able to do it which means keep the cause
alive and and maintain the the trusting
teams yeah the existential flex to me is
where your the the brilliance of what
you're talking about comes into crystal
clear focus because it's where all the
things come together you have to have
the trust of your team which is
something i think about a lot i think
about it a lot because storms come
inevitably um and i think that if you
can
invest in your employees before you ask
them to invest in you in the moment
where you need them to show up for you
they will i think that if people are you
oh you have a quick three-word phrase
you use but basically people are keeping
their head down they're afraid of being
punished it's like then you're never
going to get these revolutionary ideas a
lot of this points back at courage
what are your thoughts around courage
how do people
get the courage to
to play the long game to not the long
game it's the infinite game because a
long game could be five years right true
yeah this is forever
uh how do people build that everything
that we talking about in the infinite
game is really really really really hard
it is so much easier to build a company
based on short-term ambitions than it is
an infinite cause it just is right it's
also fun right until it's not
um
less inspiring but sometimes sometimes
fun right hitting a goal feels good
right
um
it's much easier to just hire and fire
people
frequently hire fast fire fast as to
hiring slowly and and firing slowly
because we we try and take care of our
people as best we can it's just it's
hard to build teams all of that stuff we
talked about leadership like what am i
supposed to do to build a trusting team
well i wish i could give you a list of
five things it's really really hard to
be a parent
it's much easier to be an uncle or an ad
or not have kids
right it's hard
right so why do it you know it's fun and
and exciting to be to try and beat our
competitors you know
but to to have to face
our own weaknesses every day oh
that's exhausting you know existential
flexibility i'd rather not i just would
rather not
you know so
so the reason this takes courage to
completely change our mindset a about
the game that we're actually players in
and how we want to approach these things
and do we want to shift our mindset and
our organizations to prepare for the
infinite game to be organized for the
infinite game
it takes courage because we're going to
be swimming upstream in a world that is
very finite driven you know the
pressures on us are overwhelming from
wall street or our own egos or from
internal incentive structures or our
bosses whatever it is
the pressures are overwhelming for us to
play the finite game
and so how do you stand up to massive
external pressure courage
and courage is something that comes from
relationships you know it's external
a a world-famous trapeze artist would
never attempt a brand new death defying
act for the first time without a net
they would never do it so why do we
think that we could do something
difficult without external support too
i've had the opportunity to meet real
heroes people who've risked their lives
to save the lives of others with the
belief that they were going to die
and they didn't
and when asked why did you do it they
all say something similar which is they
would have done it for me it's external
and so we have to have
we have to take the time to foster and
take care of people around us to nurture
our relationships because when we're
going to be doing something difficult
when we're going to be swimming upstream
when we're going to be innovating and
and
and and doing something different
there are days we're going to doubt
ourselves there are days we're going to
get knocked in our ass there are days
that storms are going to rise and we
have to have people who say
i got you back
you need to do this
we need you the world needs this keep
going
i believe in you you know
um
and so courage courage comes from from
not only our willingness to do that for
others but then their willingness to do
it for us and if we commit ourselves to
a just cause and we're willing to to do
those things then
you know the great thing is we take a
lot of people with us
and change the world for the better
and isn't that sort of the point of an
infinite life to leave this world in
better shape than we found it to leave
the companies that we work for in better
shape than when we started to leave our
families stronger and better capable
than than
what they can do without us
you know isn't isn't that what it means
to live an infinite life that we can
literally literally live on beyond our
own lives
so now when people have that and they
take that mantle on and they have the
ecosystem around them that gives them
that powerful support that they need to
really be courageous and i'll assume for
a second that the people watching this
they have that
one thing that i imagine a lot of people
feel helpless to do is influence the
culture of the company that they're
already in
so
is your what is your advice for somebody
that's in a company that they they don't
have an infinite minded culture
don't
don't be there no don't try and
influence that which you cannot
influence don't control that which you
cannot control
you know an infinite mindset means
that is something i can't do but i can
influence and take care of the people to
the left of me and to the right of me i
can take care of the people who work for
me i can even take care of the person i
work for
sometimes we have a toxic boss not
because they're bad but because we don't
understand the pressure they're under
sometimes to simply exhibit empathy to
our boss you know hey boss you were
really harsh on us today everything all
right what's going on i'm worried about
you you know
um i'm here like we can we can succeed
together i'm we're here to help you you
know if we're
no matter where we are inside an
organization
leadership is not about rank or
authority leadership is taking
responsibility for the people around us
and so any anybody on any team at any
rank at any level can be a leader
the first choice is that we have to want
to be a dear friend of mine lieutenant
general george flynn from the marine
corps said that the first criterion to
being a leader is you have to want to be
one
um so any of us can volunteer to be a
leader
and that's what you do you commit
yourself to seeing that the people with
whom we work on a daily basis
love coming to work
they feel that someone's got their back
they feel supported they feel that they
have top cover they feel someone cares
about them as a human being listens to
them knows their story allows them to be
themselves we can be that leader
and what you start to see is those teams
becomes
really high performing those teams
become super
tight and you start to hear rumors
across the company because everybody
wants into that team because apparently
it's a great team to work with to work
on
and before you know it one of those
people goes and moves to another team
and they take everything that they
learned because leadership has learned
and they do it for another team and if
we take that infinite mindset
then eventually the tail will wag the
dog and it doesn't matter if it's this
ceo or another ceo because we will
outlast whoever's in charge right now
and that's the goal we're doing this for
the good of the organization we're doing
this for the good of the cause
right and the tail can wag the dog
dude i love that i think you've got your
finger on something so important right
now and i can feel
this shift it was it i can feel that
there's a shift happening but they need
the words to understand it and i feel
like your book delivers that and to me
it was when you were explaining that the
breakthrough moment for you was when you
read about infinite games and suddenly
you had the lexicon with which to
conceptualize all this and i feel like
what your book is delivering on is
giving people the the framework with
which to understand it i can't remember
where i saw this but there was something
that said oh there's this color a shade
of blue that's been lost forever not
because it doesn't exist in in wave
forms of light but because we don't have
a word for it and because we don't have
a word for it we can't conceptualize it
and thusly our brain just shunts it off
into one of the colors that we do have a
name for i thought whoa that's so
powerful and so true and so accurate to
the way that the brain works and
reading the book that's what this felt
like it was like now people are going to
be able to talk about it in a way that's
going to let them conceptualize what a
company culture can be the way that the
company can be driven by something
bigger than the profits it gives them
that organizing principle i think that's
so incredibly powerful thank you i
appreciate that and i i agree and i mean
that's what happened for me which is i
found words for the discomfort i had i
had i had words for you know when people
called me naive and said you don't
understand how business works i didn't
have a response because i didn't have
words i just had a feeling and they had
more success than me and they had more
power than me so
i didn't say anything you know call me
old-fashioned i'd like to work for a
company that outlasts me i'd like to
work for a company where i can feel like
i can be myself when i go to work i'd
like to work for a company where i feel
that my boss actually cares about me
like i'm a human being
rather than a you know just a number on
a spreadsheet i'm with you there
working people find more about you where
can they engage in this movement
you know all the usual places
uh
you know
the interwebs and
linkedins and facebooks and twitters and
instagrams and
all those things um you know i think the
the question is you know when people say
how do i join the movement how do i be a
part of it um
i always ask people the same thing which
is be the leader you wish you had become
a student of leadership study it read
about it watch things about it practice
it every day you know like be a parent
you know like join the movement means
i'm i'm going to take care of my team
sometimes i'm in a leader leadership
position and sometimes i'm not and it
doesn't matter i'm going to practice
leadership if i'm a salesperson
you know if i'm if i work at the if i
work at uh the check encounter of an
airline i'm gonna take care of the
people i work with i'm gonna take care
of the customers as if as if they're my
family you know like practice leadership
learn about it study it um because i do
these things because i recognize i'm
just a piece of a jigsaw puzzle
you know it's one of the reasons i
wanted to come talk to you on camera
it's because you know when we do a
jigsaw puzzle the first thing you do is
lean the the picture the the box against
the wall and then you start
putting the pieces together to build
that picture
my job in this movement i'm the guy who
points at the box right i'm the one
who's pointing at the picture pointing
at the picture maybe pointing out a
couple of the pieces and where they go
but i need
lots of people to join me we need lots
of people to join us
who say i have a piece of the puzzle i'm
willing to lead this way i'm willing to
abandon milton friedman ideals and and
do something bigger something more
follow that you know live with an
infinite mindset lead with an infinite
mindset
and put their piece down and say
how can i help build that vision we
there's we need the army
and so how people can engage in the
movement is actually practicing all the
stuff more than anything else that's
what we need
what's the impact that you want this
book in particular to have i know you're
your life mission you've articulated
that well but what do you hope is the
impact of this book the book is written
for two reasons one it's to rally those
who
who know that we have to do things
differently and give them the words and
some of the guidance on how to do things
differently how to play with an infinite
mindset in the infinite game
and the and the other reason is to help
us recognize those finite players
because we're going to have to work for
them buy from them and invest in them
and
it's okay if they're finite-minded but
we have a right to know so when
companies say we're purpose-driven but
they don't actually make decisions to
advance their purpose
you know
we have the right to be able to try and
figure out are they lying to us or not
because we have to work for them buy
from them and invest in them um and and
and so it's it's uh it's to help us not
only do it ourselves but recognize when
others are doing it or not
i love that
simon thank you so much for coming on
thanks so much thanks for having me back
of course guys if you haven't already
gone so deep into this man's world that
you are missing out it is absolutely
extraordinary if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary take care
that was wonderful it looks amazing your
idea of tom
is just this
vast collection of
narratives that you've constructed
around your own experiences and it's
layer on top of layer on top of layer on
top of layer